We've just looked at using Spark to read in a data file as a source,
and now we're going to look at using Kafka as source.
In the previous lesson,
you learned about running applications on Spark.
In this lesson, we will learn about
the foundational concept of stream processing which is called a DataFrame.
We explore streaming from Kafka.
We learn about Kafka keys and values,
we cast data from Kafka to the string type.
In Part 1, we will talk about DataFrames.
Have you ever seen fireflies at night?
Our world is full of data,
which like fireflies it's constantly changing and in motion.
Imagine each firefly as a different data stream.
We want to be able to capture, compare,
and gather their unique data,
and see how they look when viewed together.
DataFrames enable these unique comparisons to happen.
They can make a short-term view of data in
motion your application will use to create insights.
A DataFrame is a programming construct used to coordinate processing of dynamic data.
Here is a Spark streaming application using the DataFrame construct.
Our source DataFrame in this example,
kafkaRawStreamingDF is created by reading from a readStream.
The sink DataFrame kafkaStreamingDF is used to write information to the console.
Both DataFrames appear as coding variables,
but they are powerful abstractions of moving datasets.
A Source provides a data stream,
a Sink receives a data stream.
Almost any information system can act as a source or a sink.
As a source, it provides data.
As a sink, it receives data from other systems.
A source is an external system which generates data.
A sink as an external system which consumes data.
Which is a source and which is a sink?
The key is the perspective.
It is all determined based on the point of view.
When drawing a map of the world,
you orient the globe based on your current perspective.
When viewed from different angles,
the world can look very different.
When diagramming a system,
you must choose the perspective.
Which system will be the source in this diagram?
Which will be the sink?
In this picture, identify at least two sources,
identify at least one sink.
Can you identify something here that is both a source and a sink?
The faucet represents both a data source and a data sink.
Water flows to it from the hot and cold,
water flows from it to the wash basin.
The wash basin represents a data sink in this example.
Water flows to it from the faucet.
The hot and cold both represent data sources here,
they provide both hot and cold water to the faucet.
Remember, the key is in the perspective.
Spark streams can read from various input sources.
So far, we have read from a static file using just Spark without streaming.
Spark streams have the ability to monitor folders,
watching for files as they appear,
and then read them in real time.
Perhaps, the most flexible source to read from is
Kafka because of its ability to broker data.
Another source that can be used primarily for testing is a Unix socket.
We will not be going into this in this course,
but it can be useful for learning.